This capstone project was completed using Python and its aim is to create a program for a small business to assist it to manage tasks given to its employees by creating a program that is able to create, store, display and change given tasks and other relevant information to and from text files.

When the code is executed, the user will have access to functions that have been built to carry out specific tasks based on selections they will select from a shown menu. These 'functions' are the frame of code that receive certain input and produce the desired outcomes based on the defined actions in the function.

The main program is then run, letting the user to log in using their username and password information. By verifying that the "username" and "password" they submitted against  information in the relevant "usernames" and "passwords" lists to determine a match, the program determines whether their information is correct. Otherwise, an error messages are given if either input either the username, password or both is typed improperly. Then the user will be repeatedly asked to enter their details until they match the username and password information stored in the related "usernames" and "passwords" lists. 

A "successful login" message and a menu with choices to either register users (r), add tasks (a), view all tasks (va), view tasks assigned to the user specifically (vm), produce reports, or quit quit the program are displayed once the user has entered their information accurately. The "admin" user has an additional menu choice that lets them "display statistics.", which is not available for other users. The user can enter in specific letters that are presented with each menu option to choose that item from the menu as shown above (for example, they can put in "r" to register a user).

The menu is displayed for users within a 'while' loop which ensures that after selecting a menu item, they return to the main menu where they can choose another option if they'd like or quit the application. The linked functions (mentioned at the start of the software) are called (brought in to carry out certain activities) when the user types the related letter corresponding to the first four menu items. For instance, the first method listed, "reg_user()," is called if the user types "r" to register a user. The user is prompted by this feature to enter details pertaining to the new user they wish to register, such as a new username and then a new password. The program stores the new user's information in the corresponding "usernames" and "passwords" lists once it has verified that it is accurate and does not already exist (if they attempt to register an existing user, an error notice is presented). Additionally, the data is written to the relevant external "user.txt" text file. Similar steps are taken if the user selects option 'a' from the main menu to add a task, but they are then asked to submit details about the task in response to a series of prompts, such as "Please enter the task description." and after this data has been added, it is copied from the relevant "tasks" dictionary to the external "tasks.txt" text file.

The user is not required to submit any information in order to view all tasks by selecting the third option on the menu, "va," which displays all tasks in an easy-to-read, clearly sequenced style. Only the tasks assigned to their username are numbered and displayed from the "tasks.txt" file if they select the fourth menu option, "vm," to view tasks assigned to them. They also have the option to edit one of the tasks displayed by typing in its listed number, or they can type "-1" to return to the main menu. If the user choose to edit a task, a number of prompt questions are shown to collect user input.

The sixth function listed above the main program is called if the user selects the fifth option from their main menu, 'gr' to generate reports. The 'task_overview.txt' and 'user_overview.txt' are two external text files that are created by this function. In essence, two new text files will be created when this program is launched on a computer in the same folder as the 'task manager' Python software and the already-existing 'user.txt' and 'tasks.txt' text files. These text files contain data pertaining to task statistics and user data. Only a successful message is displayed to the user to let them know that their reports have been generated.

To examine the reports that have been generated in the preceding menu option, the "admin" user can then choose "ds" from their menu selections. If the preceding menu option hasn't been selected yet, reports containing all the relevant statistics are first prepared in text files and then presented to the user in a simple, readable way.
